README.md, before:

# github-helloworld-demo

An android application showcasing how I approach to code with modern development practices.

## Tech Stack

- **Architecture**: MVVM with Clean Architecture principles
- **Networking**: Ktor + Kotlin Serialization
- **UI**: Jetpack Compose with Material Design 3
- **Navigation**: Compose Navigation
- **Dependency Injection**: Hilt
- **Concurrency**: Kotlin Flow and Coroutines
- **Testing**: Unit tests + Instrumentation tests with MockK, and Compose Testing + Jacoco for code coverage

## Overview

A very basic 2 screens GitHub API viewer

The application features two screens: one displaying public repositories for a given user, and another showing activity history for a selected repository. Each screen maintains its own top bar and navigation, providing a smooth and responsive user experience with careful attention to UI state management.

Design made by the developer, sorry :)

## Architecture

- **Modular Feature Design**: Each feature contains its own presentation, domain, and data layers
- **Scoped Dependencies**: Dependencies are scoped to `Application` and `ViewModel` for lifecycle management
- **ViewModel Integration**: Hilt's assisted injection allows ViewModels to receive dynamic parameters (owner and repository names)
- **State Management**: UI state is expressed through sealed classes, helping visualize state transitions
- **Two Features**:
    - **Repos**: Browse public repositories by username
    - **Info**: View activity history for selected repositories
- **Convention Plugins**: Custom Gradle plugins in `build-logic` to standardize module configurations and reduce boilerplate

## Testing

The project includes both unit and instrumentation tests:

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run unit tests
./gradlew app:testDebugUnitTest

# Run instrumentation tests on connected device/emulator
./gradlew app:connectedDebugAndroidTest

# Run architecture and consistency tests (Konsist)
./gradlew :konsistTest:test

# Check code formatting
./gradlew ktlintCheck

# Check code style with Detekt
./gradlew detekt

# Run lint
./gradlew lint

# Run jacoco after tests to check code coverage (build/reports in corresponding dirs)
./gradlew createDebugCombinedCoverageReport
```

Tests currently cover the **Repos** feature, showing how tests can be structured in a modular architecture. The `:konsistTest` module contains Konsist tests that guard naming conventions, layer isolation, and annotation rules across the whole codebase.

## Areas to Explore

- Add a custom rule example for Lint and Detekt

## Project Layout

```
├── app/                        # Application entry point
│   ├── MainActivity.kt         # Navigation host and DI setup
│
├── common/                     # Shared core modules
│   ├── domain/                 # Shared domain models
│   └── network/                # Ktor client and API helpers
│
├── feature/                    # Feature modules
│   ├── info/                   # Repository info screen
│   └── repos/                  # Repositories list screen
│
├── konsistTest/                # Architecture & consistency tests (Konsist)
│
└── build.gradle.kts            # Root Gradle configuration
```

## Some design decisions
### Why use exception catching instead of a monadic Result type

[Here](https://github.com/fat-fellow/github-helloworld-demo/blob/main/common/domain/src/main/java/mayudin/common/domain/utils/ConvenienceFunctions.kt#L7)

- I've worked with monadic wrappers like `Result` / `Either` before, and they work well, but they introduce a lot of unwrapping between layers. Letting exceptions propagate keep business logic straightforward and avoids turning the code into chains of result handling.
- The repository translates low-level failures into domain exceptions so higher layers don’t need to know about networking or serialization details.
- Exceptions are ultimately caught in the ViewModel and mapped to UI state. I didn't bother myself to support it in this sample, but in real products, it’s usually better to react intentionally rather than just display a generic error.

Commit message:

Adjust caching table to work smoothly

README.md, after:

# github-helloworld-demo

An android application showcasing how I approach to code with modern development practices.

## Tech Stack

- **Architecture**: MVVM with Clean Architecture principles
- **Networking**: Ktor + Kotlin Serialization
- **Storage**: Room
- **UI**: Jetpack Compose with Material Design 3
- **Navigation**: Compose Navigation
- **Dependency Injection**: Hilt
- **Concurrency**: Kotlin Flow and Coroutines
- **Testing**: Unit tests + Instrumentation tests with MockK, and Compose Testing + Jacoco for code coverage

## Overview

A very basic 2 screens GitHub API viewer

The application features two screens: one displaying public repositories for a given user, and another showing activity history for a selected repository. Each screen maintains its own top bar and navigation, providing a smooth and responsive user experience with careful attention to UI state management.

Design made by the developer, sorry :)

## Architecture

- **Modular Feature Design**: Each feature contains its own presentation, domain, and data layers
- **Scoped Dependencies**: Dependencies are scoped to `Application` and `ViewModel` for lifecycle management
- **ViewModel Integration**: Hilt's assisted injection allows ViewModels to receive dynamic parameters (owner and repository names)
- **State Management**: UI state is expressed through sealed classes, helping visualize state transitions
- **Two Features**:
    - **Repos**: Browse public repositories by username
    - **Info**: View activity history for selected repositories
- **Convention Plugins**: Custom Gradle plugins in `build-logic` to standardize module configurations and reduce boilerplate

## Testing

The project includes both unit and instrumentation tests:

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run unit tests
./gradlew app:testDebugUnitTest

# Run instrumentation tests on connected device/emulator
./gradlew app:connectedDebugAndroidTest

# Run architecture and consistency tests (Konsist)
./gradlew :konsistTest:test

# Check code formatting
./gradlew ktlintCheck

# Check code style with Detekt
./gradlew detekt

# Run lint
./gradlew lint

# Run jacoco after tests to check code coverage (build/reports in corresponding dirs)
./gradlew createDebugCombinedCoverageReport
```

Tests currently cover the **Repos** feature, showing how tests can be structured in a modular architecture. The `:konsistTest` module contains Konsist tests that guard naming conventions, layer isolation, and annotation rules across the whole codebase.

## Areas to Explore

- Add a custom rule example for Lint and Detekt
- Add logic for handling pagination in the Repos screen (RemoteMediator/Paging3 maybe?)
- Add logic for handling exceptions and stale data in Repos screen

## Project Layout

```
├── app/                        # Application entry point
│   ├── MainActivity.kt         # Navigation host and DI setup
│
├── common/                     # Shared core modules
│   ├── domain/                 # Shared domain models
│   └── network/                # Ktor client and API helpers
│
├── feature/                    # Feature modules
│   ├── info/                   # Repository info screen
│   └── repos/                  # Repositories list screen
│
├── konsistTest/                # Architecture & consistency tests (Konsist)
│
└── build.gradle.kts            # Root Gradle configuration
```

## Why use exception catching instead of a monadic Result type

[Here](https://github.com/fat-fellow/github-helloworld-demo/blob/main/common/domain/src/main/java/mayudin/common/domain/utils/ConvenienceFunctions.kt#L7)

- I've worked with monadic wrappers like `Result` / `Either` before, and they work well, but they introduce a lot of unwrapping between layers. Letting exceptions propagate keep business logic straightforward and avoids turning the code into chains of result handling.
- The repository translates low-level failures into domain exceptions so higher layers don't need to know about networking or serialization details.
- Exceptions are ultimately caught in the ViewModel and mapped to UI state. I didn't bother myself to support it in this sample, but in real products, it's usually better to react intentionally rather than just display a generic error.

## Local-first caching example with TTL (Repos feature)

The repositories list is stored in a Room database and served locally first as a SSOT. For now without pagination
